.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.8
.TH SHFSMOUNT 8 "2004 Mar 17" "shfsmount" "SHFS Manual"
.SH NAME
shfsmount \- mount remote volumes using (secure) shell connection.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shfsmount
.RB [ options ]
.RB [ [ user@ ]hostname[ :root ] ]
.RB mount_point
.sp
.B shfsmount
.RB [ \-hV ]
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B shfsmount
is a mount-support utility which makes possible to mount remote volumes to the 
local file system tree through simple shell connection. 
It uses ssh (or any other program) connection to remote servers. It requires
.B shfs.o
kernel module to be loaded. If you set suid bit on 
.B shfsmount
you enable ANY USER to mount remote dirs. User must be owner
(or member of group) of mount_point and must have write access
for that directory.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-cmd\-user=user
execute command (ssh) as this user (root only)
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-cmd=COMMAND
command to connect to remote side (see below)
.TP
.B \-P, \-\-port=PORT
connect to this port
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-persistent
make connection persistent (broken connection is re-established)
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-type=TYPE
connection server type (currently only "perl" and "shell" are supported)
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-stable
dereference symbolic links (if possible)
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-options
mount options (see below)
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
print debug messages; more options increases verbosity; this affects
kernel module too
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
print version number
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
print usage information
.TP
.B user
log in using this user name
.TP
.B hostname
specify remote host
.TP
.B root
remote directory to become root of the new mounted tree
.SH "MOUNT OPTIONS"
.TP
.B cachesize=N
set read-ahead and write-back cache size in pages, page size 
is 4KB on i386, 0 = disable filecache (default is 32, i.e. 128KB)
.TP
.B cachemax=N
set maximum number of files cached at once (default is 10)
.TP
.B preserve
preserve uid/gid (root only)
.TP
.B ttl=TIME
time to live (sec) of cached directory entries
.TP
.B uid=USER
owner of all files/dirs on mounted file system (root only)
.TP
.B gid=GROUP
group of all files/dirs on mounted file system (root only)
.TP
.B rmode=mode
root dir mode (default is 700)
.TP
.B suid, dev
see
.BR mount (8) 
(root only).
.TP
.B ro, rw, nosuid, nodev, exec, noexec, user, users
see
.BR mount (8).
.TP
.B cmd-user, cmd, port, persistent, type, stable
see above
.sp
.RE
Options in mount_options list are separated by comma without spaces between 
items (just like in
.BR mount (8)).
.sp
.RE
.B %u %h %P
in COMMAND are substituted by user, host and port respectively.
.IP
.SH ERRORS
Mount errors will be written through
.BR syslog "(3)."
Stderr is redirected to /dev/null unless 
.B \-v 
option is given (may be useful if you cannot connect to remote side).
On success, 0 is returned.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
Nothing. 
.SH BUGS
.sp 2
Date of remote file/dir may not be shown correctly (+- 1 day).
"stable" symlinks option may not work on OSF1.
.sp 1
Please report bugs [with diff -u patches, of course ;-)] to 
.I <qiq@ucw.cz>
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The simplest version (mount home dir of user at host):
.IP
	shfsmount user@host /mnt/shfs
.PP
To specify remote directory:
.IP
	shfsmount user@host:/tmp /mnt/shfs
.PP
To specify another port:
.IP
	shfsmount -P 2222 user@host /mnt/shfs
.PP
To specify another ssh option:
.IP
	shfsmount --cmd="ssh -c blowfish %u@%h /bin/bash" user@host:/tmp /mnt/shfs/
.PP
To make mount survive temporary connection outage (reconnect mode):
.IP
	shfsmount --persistent user@host /mnt/shfs
.PP
Longer transfers? Increase cache size (here 1MB cache per file (256*4KB)):
.IP
	shfsmount user@host /mnt/shfs -o cachesize=256
.PP
To enable symlink resolution:
.IP
	shfsmount -s user@host /mnt/shfs
.PP
To preserve uid (gid) (NFS replace mode :-)):
.IP
	shfsmount root@host /mnt/shfs -o preserve,rmode=755
.PP
To see what is wrong (forces kernel debug output too):
.IP
	shfsmount -vvv user@host /mnt/shfs
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR shfsumount (8)\
,
.BR mount (8)\
,
.BR ssh (1)
.SH "AUTHOR"
.nf
Zemljanka core team (Johanka, Dan, Qiq)
.I Miroslav Spousta <qiq@ucw.cz>
.fi
